# Project Proposal
This project aims to detect unexpected user input using AI. It is produced in collaboration with MAN Energy Solutions, a maritime company wanting to improve the monitoring process of ship engine components. Historically, this had been performed by experts at MAN, who would examine images produced by the ship owners at sea, and provide valuable feedback which could prevent critical damage to the engine. However, the workload is becoming prohibitively large, and they see a potential for providing immediate feedback on typical cases using a smartphone application.

Since this application is deployed in the field, it is critical that it avoids giving feedback on components it was not trained on, as it may then provide the user incorrect information. Internally, the model may also be used to filter out unrelated material, since data is often provided as an unordered camera-roll containing any number of things. By filtering and organizing the data, it can be used as training or testing data for other systems, or to simplify the labeling process. Finally, if the model can detect the expected operating conditions, it may also get good at identifying unexpected conditions.
This project aims to tackle the above problem using machine learning, specifically deep anomaly detection.

[A previous project](https://github.com/manes-ese/component-classifier) attempted to tackle the issue of filtering unrelated material using suggestions from [1], which proposed using pre-trained embeddings to quickly produce results, however, [1] also notes that specialized embeddings are likely to be more effective. This can be tricky according to [2] since datasets for anomaly detection in maintenance is less plentiful and more diverse and therefore difficult compared to e.g. manufacturing, since one cannot control the data collection environment, causing issues such as perspective, lighting and unrelated background scenes. To combat this, [2] provides a digitally synthesized dataset of 100k images, but not for commercial purposes. However, [6] is a semi-synthetic dataset with a permissive license containing metallic objects in different configurations and shadings, albeit in a setup which more resembles manufacturing.

From this, the project aims to improve upon the previous project by specializing the embeddings to the domain using suggestions from [1]. First, as suspected by the previous project and proposed by [3], lower level features will be used instead of the logits layer used by the previous project. Naively, these features may be concatenated, but [4] proposes a S-T student teacher reverse distillation process where a student (S) network is trained using quality samples to approximate features of a frozen teacher (T) network trained on e.g. ImageNet. The idea is that rubbish samples will be poorly approximated by the student.

Since ImageNet features are not very specialized to out domain, [6] may be used to create a backbone to replace the ImageNet backbone, which should hopefully create more informative embeddings for the engine domain. Since there’s only a few thousand images of quality samples, it may be beneficial to explore varying sizes of architectures. 

If we find the method to be effective at filtering out irrelevant material, it may be specialized in combination with a categorical classifier built in the previous project to create a larger dataset for specifically one of the categories of that classifier. This dataset can then be cleaned by a human to contain that component in a healthy state used in a one-class fashion to build representative embeddings using e.g. S-T from [4] above or semi/unsupervised “Anomaly Measure-dependent Feature Learning” from [1], or finally a pretrained model on industrial anomaly detection from [5]. 

The submission will contain a report evaluating the proposed approach using implementations in the form of code.
 

* [1] Pang, Guansong, et al. "Deep learning for anomaly detection: A review." ACM computing surveys (CSUR) 54.2 (2021): 1-38.
* [2] Bao, Tianpeng, et al. "Miad: A maintenance inspection dataset for unsupervised anomaly detection." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer Vision. 2023.
* [3] Cui, Yajie, Zhaoxiang Liu, and Shiguo Lian. "A Survey on Unsupervised Anomaly Detection Algorithms for Industrial Images." IEEE Access (2023).
* [4] Deng, Hanqiu, and Xingyu Li. "Anomaly detection via reverse distillation from one-class embedding." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2022.
* [5] Roth, Karsten, et al. "Towards total recall in industrial anomaly detection." Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Comp uter Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2022.
* [6] De Roovere, Peter, et al. "Dataset of industrial metal objects." arXiv preprint arXiv:2208.04052 (2022).
